Blog - create write-up for Arcus.Scripting v0.1 announement (#90)
arcus-azure/arcus: community/blog/2020-08-Announcing-Arcus-Scripting-v0.1/README.md

The `Create-AzStorageTable` also has the ability to re-create an existing table if that is required.

```powershell
PS> Create-AzStorageTable -ResourceGroupName "stock" -StorageAccountName "admin" -TableName "products"
# Creating table 'products' in the storage account 'admin'..."
```

See the [docs](https://scripting.arcus-azure.net/features/powershell/azure-storage) for more information on this function.

## Azure Resource Manager (ARM)

The `Arcus.Scripting.ARM` PowerShell module has been built to help you in manipulating ARM templates before triggering a deployment, allowing you to reduce the complexity of these templates.  
Currently, this module contains the capability to inject content into an ARM template, controlling the formatting of the injected content.
After importing the module, the `Inject-ArmContent` function is available to you.

> The [docs](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/blob/master/docs/preview/features/powershell/arm.md) has an example of an OpenAPI specifications you'd want to deploy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [docs](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/blob/master/docs/preview/features/powershell/arm.md) show you an example of injecting OpenAPI specifications into an ARM template.
```

The `Set-AzDevOpsVariable` takes in the name and the value of the variable. It's as simple as that!

```powershell
PS> Set-AzDevOpsVariable -Name "Arcus.KeyVault.VaultUri" -Value "https://arcus.azure.vault.com"
```

See the [docs](https://scripting.arcus-azure.net/features/powershell/azure-devops) for more information on this function.

## What's on the Horizon

But this is only the beginning of a great scripting story!
Here are some features that are on the horizon:

* [Azure API Management](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea%3Aapi-management)
  * [Provide script for restoring an Azure API Management service](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues/76)
  * [Provide script to backup an Azure API Management service](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues/75)
  * [Provide script to set the subscriptionKey on an Azure API Management service](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues/39)
* [Azure Key Vault](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea%3Akey-vault)

>   * [Provide script for importing certificate as base64-string into Azure Key Vault](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues/71)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * [Provide script for importing a certificate as a base64-string into Azure Key Vault](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues/71)
```

  * [Provide script to backup an Azure API Management service](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues/75)
  * [Provide script to set the subscriptionKey on an Azure API Management service](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues/39)
* [Azure Key Vault](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea%3Akey-vault)
  * [Provide script for importing a certificate as a base64-string into Azure Key Vault](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues/71)
* [Azure Logic Apps](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea%3Alogic-apps)
  * Provide scripts to [enable](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues/19) or [disable](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues/20) logic apps in a fixed order, preventing data-loss during an upgrade

Are we missing something? Don't hesitate to [make a suggestion](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues/new?template=Feature_request.md) and we're happy to help where we can!

> Thanks for reading!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Thanks for reading!
```

> Arcus team

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Arcus team
```

> # Announcing Arcus Scripting

Reviewer 2: Some general remarks:
- Looks good, but let's add some samples!

Author: Yes, done!

See the [docs](https://scripting.arcus-azure.net/features/powershell/azure-devops) for more information on this function.

## What's on the Horizon

This summary of all the features in this first version is only the beginning of a great scripting story.
Here are some features that are on the horizon, but please don't heasitate to [make a suggestion](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues/new?template=Feature_request.md) and we're happy to help where we can!

* [Azure API Management](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea%3Aapi-management)
  * [Provide script for restoring an Azure API Management service](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues/76)
  * [Provide script to backup an Azure API Management service](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues/75)
  * [Provide script to set the subscriptionKey on an Azure API Management service](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues/39)
* [Azure Cognitive Services](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea%3Acognitive-services)

>   * [Provide script set to build Azure Cognitive Search & Form Recognizer](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues/22)

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't include this one

PS> Enable-AzDataFactoryTrigger -ResourceGroupName "arcus-resource-group" -DataFactoryName "arcus-data-factory-name" -DataFactoryTriggerName "arcus-data-factory-trigger-name"
# The trigger 'my-data-factory-trigger-name' has been enabled.
```

See the [docs](https://scripting.arcus-azure.net/features/powershell/azure-data-factory) for more information on these two functions.

## Azure (Table) Storage

The `Arcus.Scripting.Storage.Table` PowerShell module is the start of a whole bunch of storage-related scripts that will in the future be collected in a `Arcus.Scripting.Storage` PowerShell module. For now, we only have the Azure Table Storage module which already contains the funcctionality to create a new table inside an Azure Storage Account.
The `Create-AzStorageTable` also has the ability to re-create an existing table if that is required.

```powershell
PS> Create-AzStorageTable -ResourceGroupName "stock" -StorageAccountName "admin" -TableName "products"
# Creating table 'products' in the storage account 'admin'..."
```

See the [docs](https://scripting.arcus-azure.net/features/powershell/azure-storage) for more information on this function.

## Azure Resource Manager (ARM)

> The `Arcus.Scripting.ARM` PowerShell module contains the capability to inject content into a ARM template, controling the formatting of the injected content.

Reviewer: Perhaps include a bit of info as to what users will be able to use the module for in general?

```suggestion
The `Arcus.Scripting.ARM` PowerShell module has been built to help you in manipulating ARM templates before triggering a deployment, allowing you to reduce the complexity of these templates.  
Currently, this module contains the capability to inject content into an ARM template, controling the formatting of the injected content.
```

After importing the module, the `Inject-ArmContent` function is available to you.

The [docs](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/blob/master/docs/preview/features/powershell/arm.md) has an example of an OpenAPI specifications you'd want to deploy.

## Azure DevOps

Something that coming up several times but was never actually seen as a separate functionality, was setting Azure pipeline variables. This functionality was scattered across scripts and was making the functions itself unnecessary complex. By separating this functionality in a dedicated module only for Azure DevOps related functionality, we have made using these functions a lot more user-friendly.

The `Set-AzDevOpsVariable` takes in the name and the value of the variable. It's as simple as that!

```powershell
PS> Set-AzDevOpsVariable -Name "Arcus.KeyVault.VaultUri" -Value "https://arcus.azure.vault.com"
```

See the [docs](https://scripting.arcus-azure.net/features/powershell/azure-devops) for more information on this function.

## What's on the Horizon

> This summary of all the features in this first version is only the beginning of a great scripting story.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
But this is only the beginning of a great scripting story!
```

> Here are some features that are on the horizon, but please don't heasitate to [make a suggestion](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues/new?template=Feature_request.md) and we're happy to help where we can!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here are some features that are on the horizon:
```

Author: No suggestions for you 😄 .

Author: Ah, nevermind, didn't see that.

* [Azure API Management](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea%3Aapi-management)
  * [Provide script for restoring an Azure API Management service](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues/76)
  * [Provide script to backup an Azure API Management service](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues/75)
  * [Provide script to set the subscriptionKey on an Azure API Management service](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues/39)
* [Azure Key Vault](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Aarea%3Akey-vault)
  * [Provide script for importing certificate as base64-string into Azure Key Vault](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues/71)

> 

Reviewer: I would include the planned scripts related to Azure Logic Apps.
This way, people can see that besides offering a test framework, we'll also be providing a set  of scripts to help them during deployment.
Something like:
 _Provide scripts to enable or disable logic apps in a fixed order, preventing data-loss during an upgrade._

Author: Aha, yes, added a list item for this. Thanks!

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Are we missing something? Don't hesitate to [make a suggestion](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.scripting/issues/new?template=Feature_request.md) and we're happy to help where we can!
```

Reason is that it's best to show what we are planning and only then ask for more suggestions; this feels more natural to me.
